RNA-sequencing analysis was performed on cerebellums of mice prenatally exposed to 0 or 0.2 ppm MeHg. The transcriptomic data were then compared to separately analyzed proteomic data

Experimental treatments
To study the long-term consequences of prenatal MeHg exposure pregnant C57BL/6 mice were dosed with 0 ppm, or 0.2 ppm MeHg via drinking water starting from the first day of their pregnancy (E0) until birth (P0). 0.2 ppm MeHg was achieved by a 1:5000 dilution of a stock solution of 4mM MeHg(II)Cl (cat#33553, Alfa Aesar) in drinking water. At sacrifice, the brains were dissected, and the cerebellum was isolated and immediately frozen with liquid nitrogen and stored at -80°C for analysis. 

RNA extraction
Frozen brain tissue samples were each suspended in 1 mL of TRIzol (cat#15596026, Thermo Fisher) reagent was added directly to a microcentrifuge tube. The tissue was homogenized using a tissue homogenizer and incubated for 5 mins at room temperature. 200 μL of chloroform (cat#C2432-1L, Sigma-Aldrich) was added to the mixture, which was then vortexed for 15 seconds to ensure thorough mixing. The samples were incubated at room temperature for 2-3 mins and then centrifuged at 12,000 x g for 15 minutes at 4°C. The aqueous phase was carefully transferred to a new RNAse-free tube and an equal volume of 70% ethanol was added. Washes were done using PureLink RNA Mini Kit (cat#12183020, Thermo Fisher). The extracted RNA was stored at -80°C for long-term preservation. The quantity and purity of the extracted RNA were assessed using a spectrophotometer. 

Bulk-RNA sequencing
RNA samples in biological triplicates (both female and male mice) were isolated as previously described were sent to Sacramento, California, Novogene Bioinformation Technology Co., Ltd. (Sacramento, USA) for RNA-Seq. Sequencing was performed using the Illumina NovaSeq platform with paired-end 150 base pair reads (PE150) and reference genome and version mm39. DESeq2 was used for differential gene expression analysis. Differentially expressed genes generated via the platform NovoMagic were then filtered and analyzed using R programming language in RStudio (v. 2023.03.1). Gene expression data from Novomagic for control (0 ppm MeHg) and 0.2 ppm MeHg-treated groups were filtered to only include genes that were quantified in at least 100% of samples per group which were then used for the analysis. To visualize common and unique proteins, a Venn diagram was created using the ggvenn package. Differentially expressed gene data from Novomagic were filtered based on padj < 0.05 and Log2 fold-change > 0 for upregulated and < 0 for downregulated. A heatmap was created from all significant differentially expressed (DEGs) using the pheatmap package. These DEGs were then used for KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) Pathway Enrichment Analysis using the enrichKEGG and Gene Ontology (GO) Enrichment Analysis using the enrichGO function from the clusterProfiler package. GO terms were classified into biological process (BP), molecular function (MF), and cellular component (CC) categories.
